With Rancher, you can initialize multiple clusters with one single central place to manage them. In production, Rancher would typically be ran in its own highly-available kubernetes cluster. For purposes of this tutorial, we'll be running Rancher in a Docker Container.

## Start an Instance of Rancher

To start Rancher, run the following command in ***Terminal Host 1***:

`docker run -d -p 443:443 --name=rancher rancher/rancher:latest`{{execute}}

Rancher may take one or two minutes to start. You can view the boot process with `docker logs rancher`{{execute HOST1}} (you can run this command multiple time to show the latest logs generated by Rancher).

Once started, you can view the Rancher dashboard at <a href="https://[[HOST_SUBDOMAIN]]-443-[[KATACODA_HOST]].environments.katacoda.com" target='_blank'>https://[[HOST_SUBDOMAIN]]-443-[[KATACODA_HOST]].environments.katacoda.com</a> - this link will show a blank page until the Rancher server finishes booting up. Once it is booted you can continue to the next step.

**Note:** Depending on how many times/when you refresh, the following two tasks may appear in reverse order. You may also be asked for a current password on the password set page, in which case the current password is **admin**

## Set the Admin Password
We need to configure a password for the Rancher admin user. For a random password, have Rancher generate the password for you. Otherwise enter your desired password in both fields and click **Save**.

## Confirm Server URL

Rancher needs us to confirm our server URL. You can leave the URL set to the default value and click **Save URL**



**Rancher is now running!! In the next step, we will add a cluster for Rancher to manage.**
